# -The Good The Mid & The Rizzless-
#### Media Matters

The following disjointed ramblings of a madman are nothing. I am not important and It is very unlikely at time of writing that anything that I do or create will be of great historical impact. And yet This book of work still exists, because at the end of the day while I am well aware of the fact of my own irrelevance is it not quintessentially human to want to be heard? To be noticed in the huddled masses of history, the billions of souls who have died living lives of no note and equally forgotten by history? 

In an age of the internet where everything is documented and everybody is oversharing on social media where people condemn this behavior and say it's harmful. But is it not human? Our existence on this Earth is so utterly insignificant that even the greatest among our species that if a comet hits our planet dooming our species we probably wouldn't know until minutes beforehand And we would all die in blissful ignorance. Nobody would remember the great humans in history, No one would remember Genghis Khan The Warlord who brought the equivalent of world peace to the ancient world, Zheng Yi Sao The Pirate Queen who brought the Eastern world to its knees and secured a prosperous future for everyone in her organization, or Alexander the Great who's conquest set the bedrock for European mythology until today. All of these people are survived by our cultures' continued willingness to remember them, and we exist as animals going through our lives surviving and reproducing to continue the lineage of the human race. 

Few of us will be remembered even fewer will be remembered a century from now and even less a millennium. 5,000 years from now, do we still exist? Or has our world turned into a barren wasteland of nuclear fallout in destitution in the wake of selfish old leaders sacrificing the future for their vein egos. I don't know and yet pace through my meager one bedroom apartment pushing away the anxieties and fears of my immediate issues wondering If I died tomorrow will I matter years from now? Will my loved ones still think fondly about the time they spent with me or will the pain of my passing be such a sore point that my memory dies in their minds to save them the pain of melancholy loss. Am I writing this as a suicide note? No, I'm not able to do that anyways. I have a responsibility for others to stay alive even if it is against my will.
