
# -The Gatekeeper Conundrum-

#### *Criticism in a medium that is both art and novelty*

This section was written in the days after the 2023 game awards where baldur's gate 3 swept the competition, despite heavy hitters alongside it such as Hi-Fi Rush, Alan Wake too, legend of Zelda tears of a Kingdom, Spider-Man 2, and resident evil 4 make. It was surprisingly a great year for games. No man's sky got its biggest update yet, Fallout 76 released its actual map-based expansion, Fortnite released a LEGO Minecraft knockoff that is both charming and fun, and indie game Giants behind games like Inscription and Deadcells announced new games coming in the new year. Bethesda released a new RPG in the form of starfield and cyberpunk 2077 got two chunky updates that turned cyberpunk 2077 into a genuine treasure.

This is the reality that Spider-Man 2 was walking into at the game of awards on December 7th, everybody knew baldur's gate was going to sweep except Spider-Man 2 fans. Now before I get into this why am I talking about this subject in a piece that is allegedly supposed to stand the test of time. Well it brings up one of the main things I have with gaming that is difficult to talk about. Gaming is a deeply personal activity for everybody who partakes in it and whether it is tabletop video gaming or live action role playing. And because it is a deeply personal hobby people can have deeply personal opinions about their hobby including what is and is not a good video game who is and is not a real gamer so on and so forth this has been litigated in the court of public opinion for years as gaming has grown as a medium to eclipse movies music and TV combined. I have absolutely have always taken the stance of If you call yourself a gamer and you enjoy playing video games you're a gamer and you're valid no matter what video games those might be, I have even taken the controversial stance among some (which to me is a no-brainer) a validating mobile gamers in people play mobile games in that space mainly because that is the only device most people have to play games hence the push by developers to port full titles over to mobile platforms. And I am genuinely supportive of being a gamer and gaming the way that makes sense to you I don't litigate between Xbox and PlayStation I don't gloat about the superiority of the PCMR over Controller wielding peasants (some people actually say these words about console gamers unironically). And specifically I don't judge people for playing the games they want to play It was a huge trend to shit on fortnite but at a certain point I realized fortnite is for the kids just like how Minecraft was for our generation and as far as I've seen fortnite as a platform has made a great product for kids and adults to enjoy alike(despite my grievances with epic as a company). 

Now that I've laid out my feelings on this this is where it gets conflicted, after the 2023 game awards there was quite a lot of people online upset Spider-Man didn't win a single award, which is fair if your favorite game didn't win an award maybe on some level you might feel like you're enjoyment of that game is invalidated by the wider gaming community and that can suck but the reality is Spider-Man 2 is a good game nobody's denying that The problem is that it went up against juggernauts both in specific categories and broadly. People want to talk about house Spider-Man lost against best action  adventure game, best narrative, game of the Year, but what I really want to distill with this phenomenon is the fact it was also up for best sound design, Spider-Man 2 was up against resident evil 4 make, Alan Wake 2, the new Dead space, Hi Fi Rush which ultimately ended up taking the trophy. Here's the thing I want to know about these games I have heard the sound design in Spider-Man 2 It is great, when you were up against three horror games a genre which I remind you can live and die based on its sound design, specifically Dead space which is famous for the lengths that it will go to make unique design innovations in its audio and is praised for this as an IP, ultimately if none of those were going to win it was going to go to Hi-Fi Rush which is a game entirely built around sound and music, Spider-Man was not going to beat a borderline rhythm game in best audio design. This category is a brilliant microcosm for the ultimate salt mine for many of these Spider-Man fans which was game of the year. Baldur's gate 3 did win but there was also Alan Wake 2 and Tears of the Kingdom. Both of which are considered by many to be must plays of their own, The only way Spider-Man 2 would have won game of the year is if those three games were gone and even then it would have to fight for its fucking life against Super Mario Wonder which was also up for that prize as well. And plenty of people online and plenty of streamers were not happy with this, making statements like “I've never even heard of Baldur's gate” or saying it has “PS2 graphics”. 

Do you remember what I said earlier about not wanting to judge people based on their tastes and gaming and how they play games because it leads to factional infighting and it's okay to let people enjoy games they want to play? Here's where the point of all of this exposition comes. Video games started are in a protected by the fact that they are a artistic medium and while game snobbery generally is not a good thing and I find art snobbery to be palpable in general the fact of the matter is is that if Spider-Man 2 is the only game that you have played this year that you think should be game of the year That means you don't play a lot of games. Now it's one thing if you buy a game like 2K or cod and you're able to play it indefinitely, money is tight in times are hard I understand that. But if you are a live streamer or a content creator making videos about how Spider-Man 2 was snubbed and you've got at least a million followers? That tells me you don't play other games. Because the fact of the matter is as fine of a game that Spider-Man 2 is, it is not necessarily a deep game either mechanically, narratively or auditorily compared to the other games that it was up against during the game awards. I understand people like what they like and I understand that people will generally stick to that but fundamentally the amount of amazing games that have come out this year is in the dozens especially because we haven't had a stacked year like this since before the pandemic, for Christ's sake a Bethesda RPG came out and it didn't even place into any of the categories, in a normal year when Bethesda releases a game that is a single player RPG they kick ass at all the award shows If not in winning awards but certainly in placing they didn't even show up once. Fundamentally at the end of the day people should play more games people should engage more with the medium that brings us all so much joy because at the end of the day it makes me deeply sad that people will look at games like baldur's gate 3 or tears of the Kingdom or Alan Wake or high-fi rush or RE4 make or any other game that beat out Spider-Man on a conceptual or quality level and think I'm not going to play that game because I don't think it's worth playing. Baldur's gate 3 was beaten out in some categories by Alan Wake 2. Both me and my girlfriend, seeing how much it was nominated for awards back in November when we voted, agreed we should buy and play the game. Fundamentally the last thing I'll say on all of this is The only people who say that baldur's gate is a bad game are people who have never played it and we shouldn't judge people for the games they play or how they play them, but we should judge them for willful ignorance


