# -We Work To Earn The Right To Work-

#### *Other Games Have A Destiny Too*

At time of writing, the long-standing child of Bungie birthed out of the carcass of their reputation, Destiny 2, has no new content coming in anytime soon. Bungie release one new PVP map that was just a Destiny one map refactored for Destiny 2 and then said they had no plans on focusing on making fun content, that is not hyperbole, they actually said that. I have always found Destiny 2 to being enigma, on paper it is the exact type of game that I would enjoy. A vibrant looter shooter with a cool sci-fi aesthetic that also functions similar to an MMO, with tight engaging gunplay. It's Borderlands mixed with The Elder Scrolls Online(ESO) with a Warframe aesthetic, what's not to love? If I'm being honest the reason why I enjoy ESO is because i neurotically played through every DLC and did completionist runs of all the new content barring anything that required a 12-man group. I had a chat in Elder Scrolls Online I was able to join a guild and be a part of that community and find people to do runs with and I was honestly not able to have that with Destiny 2 I just bought the game and fucked around for a bit. I enjoyed the Red War, completed the Curse of Osiris and Forsaken, but with Cayde-6 death and, quite frankly, a insufficient explanation of the world's lore and why I should care, I fell off. And then surprise surprise the content that I purchased I found out would "sunset" in a news article from a Google aggregator feed. Even after the community blasted bungee for their decision to sunset content people were still upset, justifiably so. The question I have is why.

While the live service genre of games definitely didn't start with Destiny and wasn't even called that back then, The notion of a forever game has existed for as long as I've been alive or longer. Everquest and Ultima Online were milking gamers for their monthly subscription fee back when I was still an embryo in my mother's womb. Which is why when Destiny a game which was hyped to no end, and understandably so given the half a billion dollar budget, was dubbed MMO light. And so many companies hopped on the bandwagon of these MMO light type of games once they saw what microtransactions in loot boxes were able to generate in terms of revenue. Despite this, all of these studio executives like Bobby Kottick have probably never touched a video game in a meaningful way let alone a development suite, so blinded by the possibility of making The money printing machines seen by Destiny and Grand theft Auto online never stop to think about the logistics of having everybody playing a forever game forever. It reminds me of multi-level marketing scams like Amway or Herbalife, never actually thinking about the logistics of what it takes to actually have that many people playing just your game even without the possibility of competition. Now dubbed live services over the last year 2023 at time of writing, we've seen the death of numerous life services and the progender IP of this new format of monetization in game design seems to be on the way out itself, run by a studio who has been ship of theseus'ed to the point of being Bungie in name only. Gone are the days of the vibrant campaigns of Halo 1 2 and 3, and left in its wake is a solidly interesting sci-fi fantasy universe butchered by time crunch laziness and the deporitization of fun. They might have said openly that they're not prioritizing it anymore but at a certain point it becomes really difficult for any live service type of game whether it's an MMO or not to prioritize fun look at World Of Warcraft. 

The end of the day the continued death of a game that tens of thousands of people will be sad to see go, less because of the game more because of the amount of money they had spent on cosmetic items and boosts, I can't help but think about my own forever game ESO thousands of dollars on this video and I don't regret I enjoyed the fun I got out of it, even if it was superficial things like houses or cosmetics. At the end of the day live services are like platforms The best ones will win out unless they can bully or kneecap anybody else who would threaten them, and unlike platforms like Steam who retains a supremacy just by virtue of being a good platform, No amount of effort put into the development of a live service game will matter if they can't build for fun first. 

